A balance sheet tells you what you own, and what you owe.
What you own minus what you owe
is called your net worth,
which is also called equity.
And equity is just another word for ownership.
I have equity in my house, I have ownership in my house.
Again, what you own minus what you owe
equals your net worth.
So what you own is also called assets.
Like money in the bank, which is an asset.
And what you owe is called liabilities,
as you are liable to pay it back.
Kind of like debt, which is a liability,
because I am, again, liable to pay it back.
So since what you owe minus what you own,
what you owe minus what you own equals equity,
then we can understand that assets minus liabilities
equals equity.
And this formula of assets minus liabilities equals equity
is your balance sheet equation.
And why is it called a balance sheet?
It's called a balance sheet because
the left side of the equation
must equal the right side of the equation.
Because what you own minus what you owe equals equity.
And just please understand this concept,
instead of memorizing it.
You can rearrange the equation so that
assets equals equity plus liabilities.
Or assets minus liabilities equals equity.
That sort of thing.
So, again, the left side will always equal
the right side, and when we say
assets equals equity plus liabilities,
it means everything you have in your possession,
meaning assets, is owned by you,
and the bank, if you have debt.
Here's an example.
And this will all make much more sense to you soon,
because we really want to maximize
your net worth the long run.
Here's an example.
Let's say you own a house that costs $100,000.
And you owe $50,000 of the house,
and that's called a mortgage.
But you own the other $50,000 portion of the house
because you paid cash for it.
Then that means the asset of $100,000,
remember the scale, the balance sheet,
the asset of $100,000 for the house on one side
equals the debt, or liability, on it
of $50,000, plus you own of it,
meaning $50K in equity.
Let's move on.
So when we look at our assets, meaning what we own,
we also want to understand what can be converted
to cash quickly if needed.
This is referred to as liquidity,
meaning how liquid are you?
And it's kind of a bizarre saying,
but you want to own stuff that's liquid,
meaning you can get rid of it like water.
It is what it is, bizarre terminology,
but I just want you to understand that.
And why is liquidity important?
Because we want to be able to own stuff
and invest in stuff that we can sell quickly
and convert to cash quickly if needed,
to not only pay off your liabilities,
but also so we can make sure that we don't incur
unnecessary fees by paying stuff like credit cards back
later than we should.
Of course, we need to make sure
that we pay off short-term debts like credit cards quickly.
Not just because of the ridiculously high interest rates,
but because we want to make sure our credit rating
is great, so we can get a mortgage to buy a house,
or we can get loan at some point if needed.
And we're gonna cover loans, credit cards,
mortgages, and credit ratings
in much more detail a little bit later in the course.
Now, in the next exercise,
we're gonna create our own balance sheet,
so we can calculate our net worth.
Why? So we can understand if we can afford a house,
or other items, or not.
Meaning not yet.
And I mention owning a house because
it can really be the most important investment
you'll ever make.
And my grandfather used to always say to me,
"Chris, buy land. They're not making it anymore."